RHDEVDOCS-3878 - 5.4 Release Notes (#44624)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/cluster-logging-vector-tech-preview.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="cluster-logging-vector-tech-preview_{context}"]
:FeatureName: Vector
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

[id="cluster-logging-about-vector"]
= About Vector
[role="_abstract"]
Vector is an observability data pipeline currently offered as an alternative to the default collector for the {logging}.

[IMPORTANT]
====
Vector does not support FIPS Enabled Clusters.
====

The following outputs are supported:

--
* `cloudwatch`. Amazon CloudWatch, a monitoring and log storage service hosted by Amazon Web Services (AWS).

* `elasticsearch`. An external Elasticsearch instance. The `elasticsearch` output can use a TLS connection.

* `fluentdForward`. An external log aggregation solution that supports Fluentd. This option uses the Fluentd *forward* protocols. The `fluentForward` output can use a TCP or TLS connection and supports shared-key authentication by providing a *shared_key* field in a secret. Shared-key authentication can be used with or without TLS.

* `kafka`. A Kafka broker. The `kafka` output can use a TCP or TLS connection.

* `loki`. Loki, a horizontally scalable, highly available, multi-tenant log aggregation system.

> * `syslog`. An external log aggregation solution that supports the syslog link:https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3164[RFC3164] or link:https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5424[RFC5424] protocols. The `syslog` output can use a UDP, TCP, or TLS connection.

Reviewer: for vector, only elasticsearch, loki, and kafka (unsecured) are supported.
fluentforward, cloudwatch, syslog are not supported in preview

Author: @IshwarKanse clarify auth options for kafka, please.

[id="cluster-logging-enabling-vector"]
= Enabling Vector
[role="_abstract"]
Vector is not enabled by default. Use the following steps to enable Vector on your {product-title} cluster.

[IMPORTANT]
====
Vector does not support FIPS Enabled Clusters.
====

.Prerequisites

* {product-title}: 4.10
* {logging-title-uc}: 5.4
* FIPS disabled

.Procedure

. Edit the `ClusterLogging` custom resource (CR) in the `openshift-logging` project:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n openshift-logging edit ClusterLogging instance
----

> . Add `logging.openshift.io/preview-vector-collector: enabled` to the `ClusterLogging` custom resource (CR).

Reviewer: Please mention the keyword `annotation`
Add annotation `logging.openshift.io/preview-vector-collector: enabled` to the `ClusterLogging` custom resource (CR)

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: "logging.openshift.io/v1"
kind: "ClusterLogging"
metadata:
  name: "instance"
  namespace: "openshift-logging"
spec:
  managementState: "Managed"
  logStore:
    type: "elasticsearch"
    retentionPolicy:
      application:
        maxAge: 1d
      infra:
        maxAge: 7d
      audit:
        maxAge: 7d
    elasticsearch:
      nodeCount: 3
      resources:
        limits:
          memory: 16Gi
        requests:
          cpu: "1"
          memory: 16Gi
      storage:
        storageClassName: "gp2"
        size: "200G"
      redundancyPolicy: "SingleRedundancy"
  visualization:
    type: "kibana"
    kibana:
      resources:
        limits:
          memory: 736Mi
        requests:
          cpu: 100m
          memory: 736Mi
      replicas: 1
  collection:
    logs:
      type: "fluentd"
      fluentd:
        resources:
          limits:
            memory: 736Mi
          requests:
            cpu: 100m

>             memory: 736Mi

Reviewer: please replace with
```
  collection:
    logs:
      type: "vector"
      fluentd: {}
```

--

* `elasticsearch`. An external Elasticsearch instance. The `elasticsearch` output can use a TLS connection.

* `kafka`. A Kafka broker. The `kafka` output can use an unsecured or TLS connection.

* `loki`. Loki, a horizontally scalable, highly available, multi-tenant log aggregation system.

[id="cluster-logging-enabling-vector"]
= Enabling Vector
[role="_abstract"]
Vector is not enabled by default. Use the following steps to enable Vector on your {product-title} cluster.

[IMPORTANT]
====
Vector does not support FIPS Enabled Clusters.
====

.Prerequisites

* {product-title}: 4.10
* {logging-title-uc}: 5.4
* FIPS disabled

.Procedure

. Edit the `ClusterLogging` custom resource (CR) in the `openshift-logging` project:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n openshift-logging edit ClusterLogging instance
----

. Add annotation `logging.openshift.io/preview-vector-collector: enabled` to the `ClusterLogging` custom resource (CR).

[source,yaml]
----
  apiVersion: "logging.openshift.io/v1"
  kind: "ClusterLogging"
  metadata:
    name: "instance"
    namespace: "openshift-logging"
    annotations:
      logging.openshift.io/preview-vector-collector: enabled
  spec:

>     collection:

Reviewer: remove this line. `collection` section is mentioned later again

  logStore:
    type: "elasticsearch"
    retentionPolicy:
      application:
        maxAge: 1d
      infra:
        maxAge: 7d
      audit:
        maxAge: 7d
    elasticsearch:
      nodeCount: 3
      resources:
        limits:
          memory: 16Gi
        requests:
          cpu: "1"
          memory: 16Gi
      storage:
        storageClassName: "gp2"
        size: "200G"
      redundancyPolicy: "SingleRedundancy"
  visualization:
    type: "kibana"
    kibana:
      resources:
        limits:
          memory: 736Mi
        requests:
          cpu: 100m
          memory: 736Mi
      replicas: 1
  collection:
    logs:
      type: "vector"
      fluentd: {}
        resources:
          limits:
            memory: 736Mi
          requests:
            cpu: 100m

>             memory: 736Mi

Reviewer: please delete these lines, because we specied empty block `{}`

also, these lines have no effect even if these are configured. these will be removed in GA

Author: Truncated the code example to end after the annotation.

----

[NOTE]
====

> You do not have to specify a secret in the `ClusterLogForwarder` CR if Vector is forwarding to Loki using token authentication.

Reviewer 2: Looking at [the code](https://github.com/openshift/cluster-logging-operator/blob/49b27f942cc7b6e23116de88d6c2daaf6c79557d/internal/generator/vector/output/loki/loki.go#L240-L255) it seems like token authentication is only possible using the token of the `logcollector` serviceaccount. I don't know if this is intentional yet.

Reviewer 3: @xperimental User provided bearer token is not working currently, this is the bug https://issues.redhat.com/browse/LOG-2461 .So no need to create any secret with token and specify it in the ClusterLogForwarder instance. If an in-cluster Loki URL is detected in the ClusterLogForwarder, the token is fetched from the logcollector SA and added to the Vector config.

Reviewer 3: Also the code for auto-fetch of the token when no secret provided is intentional.

Author: So admonition is staying in the vector section, removed from the loki section.

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="cluster-logging-vector-tech-preview_{context}"]
:FeatureName: Vector
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

[id="cluster-logging-about-vector"]
= About Vector
[role="_abstract"]
Vector is an observability data pipeline currently offered as an alternative to the default collector for the {logging}.

The following outputs are supported:

* `elasticsearch`. An external Elasticsearch instance. The `elasticsearch` output can use a TLS connection.

* `kafka`. A Kafka broker. The `kafka` output can use an unsecured or TLS connection.

* `loki`. Loki, a horizontally scalable, highly available, multi-tenant log aggregation system.

[id="cluster-logging-enabling-vector"]
== Enabling Vector
[role="_abstract"]
Vector is not enabled by default. Use the following steps to enable Vector on your {product-title} cluster.

[IMPORTANT]
====
Vector does not support FIPS Enabled Clusters.
====

.Prerequisites

* {product-title}: 4.10
* {logging-title-uc}: 5.4
* FIPS disabled

.Procedure

. Edit the `ClusterLogging` custom resource (CR) in the `openshift-logging` project:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc -n openshift-logging edit ClusterLogging instance
----

> . Add annotation `logging.openshift.io/preview-vector-collector: enabled` to the `ClusterLogging` custom resource (CR).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
. Add a `logging.openshift.io/preview-vector-collector: enabled` annotation to the `ClusterLogging` CR.
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//cluster-logging-release-notes.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="cluster-logging-vector-tech-preview_{context}"]
:FeatureName: Vector
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

[id="cluster-logging-about-vector"]
= About Vector
[role="_abstract"]

> Vector is an observability data pipeline currently offered as an alternative to the default collector for the {logging}.

Reviewer 5: Vector is a log collector  offered as a tech-preview alternative to the current default ...

The following outputs are supported:

> * `elasticsearch`. An external Elasticsearch instance. The `elasticsearch` output can use a TLS connection.

Reviewer 5: ... or the managed offering of {logging}
